So, what's generally being done as past life regression
is essentially a psychological process.
You don’t touch anything past life that way.
It is just that even within the mind that you have right now
there are so many layers to this
which never comes into your access.
You know there are schizophrenic people
the recorded number actually there could be more.
Medically well documented number is
there have been people who have managed 32 different personalities
in the same person, complete people.
One man being 32 different people.
These are clinically well recorded cases
there could be more.
For you as a person
for you to be the person that you are
you have so much complexity of thought, emotion, this, that.
Just imagine 32 like this within you, your mind can effortlessly handle it.
If you ask me how many are possible, I would say 84 million personalities you can do.
You can do that much or more because the mind has come with that much capability.
It is never really used.
A schizophrenic is probably using his mental capacity far more than a so-called normal person.
So the complexity of what the mind is, is such
that it can create different levels of experience for you.
Mind is such, right now you are here in Tibet.
You just saw a few things of Tibetan life.
With this your mind can take this information
and build a whole new Tibet within you, if you want.
See people are writing books, you know?
Somebody came to Tibet for 10 days, he goes back and writes 500 pages
which you read for 10 days
and it looks like a world by itself.
He was here only for 10 days.
Now he created a whole new Tibet in his mind.
All of it may not be true, but it doesn’t matter.
From the little information he got, he just multiplied it in his mind in so many different ways
and it may not be too totally off either, from the reality.
It may be slightly off
but it's still Tibet.
So, if I show you anything. You saw me now. Just using me as a subject
you can write 1000 pages if you want.
Human beings have the capability, isn't it?
Yes?
Some have developed it, some have not, but it is there in every human being.
So if I just give you one thought
with that thought you can build a whole life.
This is the whole art of Tantra.
Tantra means just this using the mind in such a way
that you create such elaborate detail of everything.
Now we could just work.
You have a little flower or something?
The kriya and the pranayam and whatever the Shakthi Chalana Kriya
another thing that you are doing, are still very simple ones.
There are more complex ways of using your mind.
Even in this, you need to use your mind
I am sure right now atleast 60% of people can never get their 7 cycles right
Yes? Am I right?
Am I being cruel on you?
All you have to do is count upto 28. You know?
7 cycles, 4 mudras
I would say atleast 60% of the people won't get it right.
They always get mixed up, beyond 3,4 they are gone.
When I watch a person doing it, I know they are gone.
If you do it everyday, everyday
now you train you mind in a certain way.
This is too much creation for you.
I wanted something more simple, but okay
Okay, this is just
let's take it here. Okay? Just this much
I don’t want to break it, so just this much.
Can everybody see this?
Or just this much, the last part.
All of you can see this, right?
Maybe you can't see the whole detail
but I am sure you have seen
this many times in your life.
So I will give you three minutes.
Close your eyes and recreate this in total detail in your mind.
Start from the bottom or start from the top
and slowly create this whole thing in your mind, let me see.
Okay.
Are you managing?
You know being a Creator is a hard job.
How much attention it must have taken
if just one piece of grass is taking so much attention?
And every bit of it is unique
no repetition, no carbon copies anywhere.
So what you call as creation
or the Creator
the source of creation is a phenomenal dimension of attention.
Just from within, this body slowly got created, every cell, every detail within.
Do you know how much attention it would have taken?
You think it happened without attention?
Does it look like this happened without attention?
Tremendous amount of attention has gone into it, isn't it?
If that attention became conscious
then you are aware
otherwise it's only mental alertness.
Mental alertness can do things.
Many incredible things it can do.
In the physical plane of life, mental alertness can do incredible things
it can create a world by itself.
So, Tantra is a science where they started working with the mental attention to such a point
that you can create a whole new world if you wish.
So Kailash is known as the Tantric mountain
and Tibet is known as the land of Tantra.
It did not originate here.
All the initial Gurus who came and
brought the Tantric process to Tibet were from India.
So, he came and
he started the process to some extent
but he was more Buddhist than Tantric.
Later on, when he realized that
it is not really taking people off their old occult practices into a spiritual process
then he went in search of a right kind of teacher who could do this
and in a completely different realm.
There is very mystical background to the birth of Padmashambhava.
He found Padmashambhava as an 8-year-old boy
who happened to be sitting on an island
which could
may not be an island as we know it.
Land, water, island - not in that sense.
It might have been in a completely different realm altogether.
He found this boy sitting with a diamond in one hand
and a lotus in the other hand.
So, it is from this the Vajrayana Buddhism came which is purely Tantric.
It is remnants of that what you see as Tibetan Buddhism today.
It is a very
what to say
it is a socially convenient concoction of mixing Buddhism and Tantrism
because Tantrism by itself would have never found acceptance in the society
because they are no-holds barred people.
Buddhism is very straight and clean.
So Padmashambhava, a clever master, he mixed these two in right proportions.
Buddhism was just a camouflage. Tantra was the real thing that he brought in.
So after sometime when you are not able to… generation to generation
when you are not able to keep the aliveness of the science
then the surface becomes the real thing.
If…
Let's say yourself
you joined the Army, here.
If you join the Army here, you will join the Chinese Army
and you wore this uniform and every day you walked up and down
or took the gun and you walked in front of us every day.
Initially we will see, "Oh, this guy has become a soldier this guy has become a soldier."
After sometime, slowly, slowly you become a soldier in our mind
that person that we knew will slowly disappear.
The uniform you wear becomes you
that’s what happened.
These were Tantrics who wore the Buddhist uniform
because without that they wouldn’t have found social acceptance
and they did phenomenal things
which could have never been done with simple meditative processes of releasing
you from suffering and those kinds of things.
They did phenomenal acts.
And…
but from generation to generation, when the science died, the uniform remained.
That’s what you see today.
Still there is some flesh inside. Not totally lost
but mostly lost.
And…
And what's being done in terms of taking life back to its works…
See, suppose you are driving a Toyota
for you a Toyota means like that, you know it looks like that.
Now you have gotten the shape of the Toyota in your head.
At least the back of the Toyota.
Yes, because you’re constantly staring at some Toyota’s backside.
It’s clear to you, that’s how a Toyota looks.
This is how it looks on the road this is how it looks even
if it goes to the local garage, but if you take it to the manufacturing place a Toyota looks different.
A Toyota is doing what it is doing, not because of the way you see it
because of the way somebody else sees it in the works.
Yes? Do you understand what I am saying?
So, similarly a human being means he looks like this.
A man means looks like this
a woman means looks like that, ant means looks like that, elephant means looks like that.
That is just like seeing the backside of the Toyota.
If you take it to the works
life at its works looks completely different.
Yoga means taking life back into its works.
In that dimension what's been done here is so phenomenal.
Ironically this all started in the Indian subcontinent
and still is active in some minimal way
but mostly got wiped out
because the word Tantra
was taboo because people misunderstood it as something else.
So, when, in the 12th-13th century when the
Muslim invasion came, they just slaughtered anything that is Tantra.
If anybody was known to be somewhere associated with anything Tantric
he was just instantly extinguished
because these people were considered anti-God.
Because God is the only creator.
You can't mess with creation. That’s their idea.
They left milder parts of religion
which they said, "Okay, you worship some nonsense, it's alright.
But if you’re getting too deep into it, you shouldn’t live."
With that attitude they took it off.
And later on when the British came
with their very prudish Victorian ideas, they also stamped it out wherever they could.
So very small remnants of it are left
and now the American authors
are completely destroying it by distorting it in most horrible ways.
Because of this, this absolutely fabulous dimension of life has got derailed completely.
So…
I won't go by this, but if I go by the present thought process of my mind
this is where I should come and live.
Right now my thought is like that.
If I give way to that, this is where I should be living
not somewhere down
because..
this is something else.
It's not that we don’t have good stuff going, we have great stuff going
but this is
really freaky challenge.
It's truly out of the world, not just as a statement
it's truly out of the world.
Maybe this is where that expression arose
if that expression makes any sense anywhere, it's here.
This is really out of the world.